international calls are growing for
Israel to delay its planned assault on
Rafa a top United Nations official has
said the attack could lead to a
Slaughter with people in Rafa already
suffering greatly from Israel's military
operation Israel says the push is part
of a plan to eliminate Hamas a group
considered a terrorist organization by
multiple Nations more than a million
people have taken shelter in the
southern gazen city on the Egyptian
border conditions in the region are dire
our correspondent has been talking to
those seeking Refuge there about what
their fears are for what might be
coming ahead of a likely escalation in
the war between Hamas and Israel akam
Ali is worried about what it could mean
for the city of
Rafa Israel is preparing to launch a
full scale ground offensive
here it means Akram and his family have
to flee again
this time to Central Gaza after living
in this tent for 40
days I started to unpack the tent as you
can see we are heading to the central
region because it's not safe here in
Rafa at all the important thing is that
for many days the Israeli Army has been
threatening to enter Rafa we want to go
to the central region hoping that some
of it is left even though it's not safe
there safety is in God's
hands
anxiety is on the rise for more than a
million displaced people
here many families have been forced to
move their tents from Rafa to other
places in search of
safety some were also left shaken by
Israeli strikes that led to the freeing
of two hostages inside a house at the
city shabura refugee
camp
we were in Rafa tal suan they were
bombing next to it and many people died
so we thought it would be better to go
to the seaside otherwise where can we go
to
Israel where do we go if Israel sweeps
Rafa where do we go give us any place we
are asking the Hamas government or the
human beings in charge of the Gaza Strip
to come to us and give us a solution and
provide us with shelter we are here of
course and not going
away as the war continues to disrupt the
lives of people like Akram and his
family those leaving Rafa hope this
latest displacement will be the last one
and that peace follows
soon well indeed some Palestinians are
already leaving Rafa in anticipation of
Israel's planned assault I asked
journalist kareim El gwari what's being
done to assure the safety of those
who've been told to
evacuate well nothing basically
basically they're leaving on individual
basis they were not told by Israel which
route to take or really where to go
there are no until now no plans from for
them said that his army should draw up a
plan but we don't know yet what this
plan is there is talk that they setting
up uh 10 cities in the southwest of the
Gaza Strip but it's difficult to see how
they do this for 1.4 million people
that's the size of the city of Munich
and also who is conducting this
operation of setting up this cities 10
cities and who is paying for it the
original idea seems to be that the
Americans and the Gulf States are paying
for it there's no nothing we hear
nothing from the Gulf States about it
and also who is conducting the whole
operation the UN already said that it
doesn't want to be part of any forced
eviction of people from
Rafa mediators have been trying to
broker another ceasefire deal as you
know they've been meeting in Cairo uh
but I understand those negotiations have
been suspended uh what can you tell us
Karim well the high level uh
negotiations are over and we really
don't know the outcome there are
conflicting reports there's some reports
saying that there was some progress
about what we call maybe the exchange
rate between Israeli hostages and
Palestinian prisoners saying like how
many people Palestinians in Israeli
prisons are released for the freeing of
the Israeli Hospital of the hostages but
they say there's a better understanding
now but also something else there is the
one of the demands of Hamas that is
guarantees for the end of the war before
they release all the P all the hostages
um there is nothing no report about it
there is Israeli media reports saying
that actually the Israeli the security
establishment Drew up a plan for this
negotiations That Was Then rejected by
Netanyahu and then he was sent his
delegations to Cairo uh only in order to
listen and uh to um report back the
truth is we don't know much about the
substance what is talked about there was
no Hamas presence and uh it seems to be
like whatever was talked about has to be
brought back to Hamas and we know that
takes time this is saying that they will
continue for three days now further
consultations here in Cairo but on a
lower level I think they're all waiting
for the answer from Hamas and also from
Netanyahu now you're in Cairo uh Egypt
clearly uh is affected by what's
happening in Gaza right next door what
is Egypt's role in all of this
kareim well Egypt fears of course that
there is a mass Palestinian Exodus from
Rafa if there is this offensive that's
the biggest fear there's a lot of
tension between Egypt and Israel Israel
is accusing Egypt that weapons were um
smuggled from Egypt to Hamas through the
Egyptian site it's accusing Egypt to
block the eight Egypt says no the reason
for the blocking the eight of eight is
Israel and of course there's a big
concern now in Egypt about this uh
upcoming possible offensive the
spokesperson of the government said if
Nations security issues of U Egypt are
somehow uh violated they might be even
recall the Ambassador from Israel that
is there since the peace treaty of 19
1979 the Camp David peace treaty Kareem
thank you very much that was journalist
Kareem El guari in
Cairo